filesystem sink documentation (#21)
ArroyoSystems/arroyo-docs: connectors/filesystem.mdx

---

> title: File System

Reviewer: This should also be added to the list of connectors in connectors/overview.mdx

description: "Write Parquet and JSON to S3 and local filesystems"
---

Arroyo provides the capability to write Parquet and JSON files to S3 and local filesystems.

> This will produce complete files in line with the checkpointing system.

Reviewer: I think the work involved here is awesome enough that it warrants a few more lines about how Arroyo ensures transactional sinking to filesystems.

As such, the file system sinks write all data exactly once.

## Configuring the File System Sink

The file system sink is currently only configurable through SQL,

>  using the [SQL DDL](sql/ddl) syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 using the [SQL DDL](/sql/ddl) syntax.
```

>  The connector name will be `filesystem` and there are several additional options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The connector name is `filesystem` and there are several additional options
```

 
 ### Destination Options

 | Field | Description | Required | Example |
 | ----- | ----------- | -------- | ------- |

>  | `path` | A URI to the target destination | No | `file:///test-data/my-cool-arroyo-pipeline`, `https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/awesome-arroyo-bucket/amazing-arroyo-dir` |

Reviewer: It's a bit confusing that these are all marked as not required—surely something is?

Is there any reason to prefer s3_bucket and s3_directory options over the more flexible URI ones? In any case, it would be good to clarify that these are different (and mutually incompatible) ways of configuring the same thing.

 | `s3_bucket` | The S3 bucket to write to | No | `awesome-arroyo-bucket` |

>  | `S3_directory` | The S3 directory to write to | No | `amazing-arroyo-dir` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 | `s3_directory` | The S3 directory to write to | No | `amazing-arroyo-dir` |
```

| `rollover_seconds` | Number of seconds a file will be open before it is closed and a new file is opened | `30` | `3600` |
| `inactivity_rollover_seconds` | Number of seconds a file will be open without any new data before it is closed and a new file is opened | `None` | `600` |
| `format` | The format to write the data in. Supported values: `parquet`, `json` | Required | `json` |

### Parquet Options
Parquet has a few supported options. Please reach out if you'd like to expand the settings allowed.

| Field | Description | Default | Example |
| ----- | ----------- | -------- | ------- |
| `parquet_compression` | The compression codec to use for Parquet files. Supported values: `none`, `snappy`, `gzip`, `zstd`, `lz4`. | `none` | `zstd` |
| `parquet_row_batch_size` | The maximum number of rows to write per record batch | `10000` | `100`|
| `parquet_row_group_size` | The maximum number of rows to write per row group | `1000000` | `100000` |

## File System Sink DDL

Here's an example for how to create a table to write parquet to S3:
```sql
CREATE TABLE bids (
  auction bigint,
  bidder bigint,
  price bigint,
  datetime timestamp
) WITH (

>   connector ='filesystem',

Reviewer: nit: missing space after =

  path = 'https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/demo/s3-uri',
  format = 'parquet',
  parquet_compression = 'zstd',
  rollover_seconds = '60'

> );

Reviewer: Nit: missing trailing ` ``` `
